---
layout: 'index'
view: 'post'
permalink: '/posts/2023/12/06/MongoDB.html'
opengraph:
    site:
        name: 'ProjectedBy/Sub'
        url: '/'
date: '2023/12/06 15:20:00'
title: 'MongoDB'
description: ""
category: 'MongoDB'
tags: ['MongoDB']
---

## Introduction to MongoDB

1. Document Database

A record in MongoDB is a document, which is a data structure composed of field and value pairs. MongoDB documents are similar to JSON objects. The values of fields may include other documents, arrays, and arrays of documents.

- Documents correspond to native data types in many programming languages.
- Embedded documents and arrays reduce need for expensive joins.
- Dynamic schema supports fluent polymorphism.

> fluent polymorphism: 객체 지향 프로그래밍에서 사용되는 디자인 패턴으로, 메서드 체인을 사용하여 다형성을 구현

2. Collection/View/On-Demand Materialized View

- Collection: MongoDB stores documents in collections. Collections are analogous to tables in relational databases.
- View: Read-only Views (Starting in MongoDB 3.4)
- On-Demand Materialized Views (Starting in MongoDB 4.2).

> On-Demand Materialized Views: An on-demand materialized view is a pre-computed aggregation pipeline result that is stored on and read from disk. On-demand materialized views are typically the results of a $merge or $out stage.

3. Features

- High Performance

    - Support for embedded data models reduces I/O activity on database system.
    - Indexes support faster queries and can include keys from embedded documents and arrays.

- Query API

    - The MongoDB Query API supports read and write operations (CRUD) as well as:

        - Data Aggregation
        - Text Search and Geospatial Queries

- High Availability

    - MongoDB's replication facility, called replica set, provides:

        - automatic failover
        - data redundancy

- Horizontal Scalability

    - Sharding distributes data across a cluster of machines.
    - Starting in 3.4, MongoDB supports creating zones of data based on the shard key. In a balanced cluster, MongoDB directs reads and writes covered by a zone only to those shards inside the zone.

- Support for Multiple Storage Engines

    - WiredTiger Storage Engine
    - In-Memory Storage Engine.
    - In addition, MongoDB provides pluggable storage engine API that allows third parties to develop storage engines for MongoDB.

### Databases and Collections

MongoDB stores data records as documents (specifically BSON documents) which are gathered together in collections. A database stores one or more collections of documents.

- Databases

In MongoDB, databases hold one or more collections of documents. To select a database to use, in mongosh, issue the `use <db>` statement, as in the following example:

```sql
use myDB
```

- Create a Database

If a database does not exist, MongoDB creates the database when you first store data for that database. As such, you can switch to a non-existent database and perform the following operation in mongosh:

```sql
use myNewDB
db.myNewCollection1.insertOne( { x: 1 } )
```

The `insertOne()` operation creates both the database myNewDB and the collection myNewCollection1 if they do not already exist. Be sure that both the database and collection names follow MongoDB Naming Restrictions.

- Collections

MongoDB stores documents in collections. Collections are analogous to tables in relational databases.

Create a Collection

If a collection does not exist, MongoDB creates the collection when you first store data for that collection.

```sql
db.myNewCollection2.insertOne( { x: 1 } )
db.myNewCollection3.createIndex( { y: 1 } )
```

Both the insertOne() and the createIndex() operations create their respective collection if they do not already exist. Be sure that the collection name follows MongoDB Naming Restrictions.

- Explicit Creation

MongoDB provides the `db.createCollection()` method to explicitly create a collection with various options, such as setting the maximum size or the documentation validation rules. If you are not specifying these options, you do not need to explicitly create the collection since MongoDB creates new collections when you first store data for the collections.

To modify these collection options, see collMod.

- Document Validation

By default, a collection does not require its documents to have the same schema; i.e. the documents in a single collection do not need to have the same set of fields and the data type for a field can differ across documents within a collection.

Starting in MongoDB 3.2, however, you can enforce document validation rules for a collection during update and insert operations. See Schema Validation for details.

For deployments hosted in MongoDB Atlas, the Performance Advisor and the MongoDB Atlas UI detect common schema design issues and suggest modifications that follow MongoDB best practices. To learn more, see Schema Suggestions.

- Modifying Document Structure

To change the structure of the documents in a collection, such as add new fields, remove existing fields, or change the field values to a new type, update the documents to the new structure.

- Unique Identifiers

Collections are assigned an immutable UUID. The collection UUID remains the same across all members of a replica set and shards in a sharded cluster.

To retrieve the UUID for a collection, run either the listCollections command or the db.getCollectionInfos() method.

### Views

A MongoDB view is a read-only queryable object whose contents are defined by an aggregation pipeline on other collections or views.

MongoDB does not persist the view contents to disk. A view's content is computed on-demand when a client queries the view.

https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/views/