---
layout: 'index'
view: 'post'
permalink: '/posts/2023/12/16/TCP.html'
opengraph:
    site:
        name: 'ProjectedBy/Sub'
        url: '/'
date: '2023/12/16 13:22:00'
title: 'TCP'
description: ""
category: 'TCP'
tags: ['TCP']
---

## 3.2. Specific Option Definitions

A TCP Option, in the mandatory option set, is one of an End of Option List Option, a No-Operation Option, or a Maximum Segment Size Option.

- End of Option List Option - This option code indicates the end of the option list.
- A No-Operation Option is formatted as follows: This option code can be used between options, for example, to align the beginning of a subsequent option on a word boundary.
- A Maximum Segment Size Option: If this option is present, then it communicates the maximum receive segment size at the TCP endpoint that sends this segment. This value is limited by the IP reassembly limit.



Additional RFCs define some other commonly used options that are recommended to implement for high performance but are not necessary for basic TCP interoperability. These are the TCP Selective Acknowledgment (SACK) Option [22] [26], TCP Timestamp (TS) Option [47], and TCP Window Scale (WS) Option [47].

TCP SACK (Selective Acknowledgement)은 데이터 수신자가 성공적으로 수락된 모든 데이터 세그먼트에 대해 보낸 사람에게 알리는 승인 메커니즘입니다.

| Variable  | Description                                               |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| SND.UNA   | send unacknowledged                                       |
| SND.NXT   | send next                                                 |
| SND.WND   | send window                                               |
| SND.UP    | send urgent pointer                                       |
| SND.WL1   | segment sequence number used for last window update       |
| SND.WL2   | segment acknowledgment number used for last window update |
| ISS       | initial send sequence number                              |

| Variable  | Description                     |
| --------- | ------------------------------- |
| RCV.NXT   | receive next                    |
| RCV.WND   | receive window                  |
| RCV.UP    | receive urgent pointer          |
| IRS       | initial receive sequence number |


```
                   1         2          3          4
              ----------|----------|----------|----------
                     SND.UNA    SND.NXT    SND.UNA
                                          +SND.WND
```

1. old sequence numbers that have been acknowledged
2. sequence numbers of unacknowledged data
3. sequence numbers allowed for new data transmission
4. future sequence numbers that are not yet allowed

```
                       1          2          3
                   ----------|----------|----------
                          RCV.NXT    RCV.NXT
                                    +RCV.WND
```


1. old sequence numbers that have been acknowledged
2. sequence numbers allowed for new reception
3. future sequence numbers that are not yet allowed

There are also some variables used frequently in the discussion that take their values from the fields of the current segment.

Table 4: Current Segment Variables
Variable	Description
SEG.SEQ	segment sequence number
SEG.ACK	segment acknowledgment number
SEG.LEN	segment length
SEG.WND	segment window
SEG.UP	segment urgent pointer

A connection progresses through a series of states during its lifetime. The states are: LISTEN, SYN-SENT, SYN-RECEIVED, ESTABLISHED, FIN-WAIT-1, FIN-WAIT-2, CLOSE-WAIT, CLOSING, LAST-ACK, TIME-WAIT, and the fictional state CLOSED. CLOSED is fictional because it represents the state when there is no TCB, and therefore, no connection. Briefly the meanings of the states are:

LISTEN -
represents waiting for a connection request from any remote TCP peer and port.
SYN-SENT -
represents waiting for a matching connection request after having sent a connection request.
SYN-RECEIVED -
represents waiting for a confirming connection request acknowledgment after having both received and sent a connection request.
ESTABLISHED -
represents an open connection, data received can be delivered to the user. The normal state for the data transfer phase of the connection.
FIN-WAIT-1 -
represents waiting for a connection termination request from the remote TCP peer, or an acknowledgment of the connection termination request previously sent.
FIN-WAIT-2 -
represents waiting for a connection termination request from the remote TCP peer.
CLOSE-WAIT -
represents waiting for a connection termination request from the local user.
CLOSING -
represents waiting for a connection termination request acknowledgment from the remote TCP peer.
LAST-ACK -
represents waiting for an acknowledgment of the connection termination request previously sent to the remote TCP peer (this termination request sent to the remote TCP peer already included an acknowledgment of the termination request sent from the remote TCP peer).
TIME-WAIT -
represents waiting for enough time to pass to be sure the remote TCP peer received the acknowledgment of its connection termination request and to avoid new connections being impacted by delayed segments from previous connections.
CLOSED -
represents no connection state at all.