---
layout: 'index'
view: 'post'
permalink: '/posts/2023/12/16/Pi.html'
opengraph:
    site:
        name: 'ProjectedBy/Sub'
        url: '/'
date: '2023/12/16 11:05:00'
title: 'Mathematics'
description: ""
category: 'Mathematics'
tags: ['Mathematics']
---

## LINEAR PROGRAMMING MODEL

$ Z = $ value of overall measure of performance.

$ x_j = $ level of activity $ j $ (for $ j = 1, 2, ..., n $).

$ c_j =  $ increase in $ Z $ that would result from each unit increase in level of activity $ j $.

$ b_i = $ amount of resource $ i $ that is available for allocation to activities (for $ i = 1, 2, . . . , m $ ).

$ a_{ij} = $ amount of resource $ i $ consumed by each unit of activity $ j $.

The model poses the problem in terms of making decisions about the levels of the activities, so $ x_1, x_2, ..., x_n $ are called the decision variables.

The values of $ c_j $, $ b_i $, and $ a_{ij} $ (for $ i = 1, 2, ... , m $ and $ j = 1, 2, ... , n $) are the input constants for the model.

The $ c_j $, $ b_i $, and $ a_{ij} $ are also referred to as the parameters of the model.

## A Standard Form of the Model

```latex
Maximize Z = c_1x_1 + c_2x_2 + ... + c_nx_n,
```
restrictions

```latex
\begin{aligned}
a_{11}x_1 + a12x2 + ... + a_{1n}x_n <= b_1
\\
a_{21}x_1 + a22x2 + ... + a_{2n}x_n <= b_2
\\
...........................
\\
a_{m1}x_1 + am2x2 + ... + a_{mn}x_n <= b_m
\end{aligned}
```

and

```latex
x_1 >= 0, x_2 >= 0, . . . , x_n >= 0.
```
We now hasten to add that the preceding model does not actually fit the natural form of some linear programming problems. The other legitimate forms are the following:

1. Minimizing rather than maximizing the objective function:

```latex
Minimize Z = c_1x_1 + c_2x_2 + ... c_nx_n
```

2. Some functional constraints with a greater-than-or-equal-to inequality:

```latex
a_{i1}x_1 + a_{i2}x_2 + ... +  a_{in}x_n >= b_i for some values of i.
```

3. Some functional constraints in equation form:

```latex
a_{i1}x_1 + a_{i2}x_2 + ... +  a_{in}x_n = b_i for some values of i.
```

4. Deleting the nonnegativity constraints for some decision variables:

```latex
x_j unrestricted in sign for some values of j.
```

- A feasible solution is a solution for which all the constraints are satisfied.
- An infeasible solution is a solution for which at least one constraint is violated.
- The feasible region is the collection of all feasible solutions.
- An optimal solution is a feasible solution that has the most favorable value of the objective function.

The most favorable value is the largest value if the objective function is to be maximized, whereas it is the smallest value if the objective function is to be minimized.

- A corner-point feasible (CPF) solution is a solution that lies at a corner of the feasible region.



Most problems will have just one optimal solution. However, it is possible to have more than one. This would occur in the example if the profit per batch produced of product 2 were changed to $2,000. This changes the objective function to Z = 3x1 + 2x2, so that all the points on the line segment connecting (2, 6) and (4, 3) would be optimal. This case is illustrated in Fig. 3.5. As in this case, any problem having multiple optimal solutions will have an infinite number of them, each with the same optimal value of the objective function.

Another possibility is that a problem has no optimal solutions. This occurs only if (1) it has no feasible solutions or (2) the constraints do not prevent improving the value of the objective function (Z) indefinitely in the favorable direction (positive or negative). The latter case is referred to as having an unbounded Z. To illustrate, this case would result if the last two functional constraints were mistakenly deleted in the example, as illustrated in Fig. 3.6.

We next introduce a special type of feasible solution that plays the key role when the simplex method searches for an optimal solution.

A corner-point feasible (CPF) solution is a solution that lies at a corner of the feasible region.
